[IMP] purchase: update manage vendor bills (#4037)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/purchase/manage_deals/manage.rst

Manage vendor bills
===================

> A vendor bill is an invoice received for products and services that a company purchases from a

Author: Good call!

In Odoo, a vendor bill can be created at different points in the purchasing process, depending on
the :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy chosen in the :guilabel:`Purchase` app settings.

Bill control policies
=====================

To view the default bill control policy and make changes, go to :menuselection:`Purchase -->
Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Invoicing` section. Here, there are
the two :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy options: :guilabel:`Ordered quantities` and
:guilabel:`Received quantities`.

.. image:: manage/manage-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Bill control policies in purchase app settings.

The policy selected will be the default for any new product created. The definition of each policy
is as follows:

- :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`: creates a vendor bill as soon as a purchase order is confirmed.
  The products and quantities in the purchase order are used to generate a draft bill.
- :guilabel:`Received quantities`: a bill is created only *after* part of the total order has been
  received. The products and quantities *received* are used to generate a draft bill. An error

>   message will appear if creation of a vendor bill is attempted without receiving anything.

Author: Added a warning admonition below

.. tip::
   If one or two products need a different control policy, the default bill control setting can be
   overridden by going to the :guilabel:`Purchase` tab in a product's template and modifying its
   :guilabel:`Control Policy` field.

.. image:: manage/manage-product-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Control policy field on product form.

3-way matching
--------------

Activating :guilabel:`3-way matching` ensures that vendor bills are only paid once some (or all) of
the products included in the purchase order have actually been received. To activate it, go to
:menuselection:`Purchase --> Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to the

> :guilabel:`Invoicing` section. Then, click

Author: Unfortunately no :-(

:guilabel:`3-way matching: purchases, receptions, and bills`.

.. important::
   :guilabel:`3-way matching` is *only* intended to work with the :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy

>    set to :guilabel:`Received quantities`.

Author: Good call

and click :guilabel:`Create`.

Then, add a :guilabel:`Vendor`, add products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a line`, and add a :guilabel:`Bill Date`. :guilabel:`Confirm` the bill. From here,
click the :guilabel:`Journal Items` tab to view (or change) the :guilabel:`Account` journals that
were populated based on the configuration on the :guilabel:`Vendor` and :guilabel:`Product` forms.

Then, click :guilabel:`Add Credit Note` or :guilabel:`Add Debit Note` to add credit or debit notes
to the bill; add a :guilabel:`Bill Reference` number; then click :menuselection:`Register Payment
--> Create Payment` to complete the :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`.

.. tip::
  To tie the :guilabel:`Draft Bill` to an existing purchase order, click the :guilabel:`drop-down`
  menu next to :guilabel:`Auto-Complete`, and select a :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)` from the menu.
  The bill will auto-populate with the information from the :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`.

.. image:: manage/manage-auto-complete.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Auto-complete drop-down list on draft vendor bill.

Batch billing
=============

> From the :guilabel:`Accounting` app, vendor bills can be processed and managed in batches. To do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vendor bills can be processed and managed in batches in the :guilabel:`Accounting` app. To do
```

this, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Bills`. Then, click the :guilabel:`checkbox`
at the top left of the page under :guilabel:`Create`. This will select all existing vendor bills
with a :guilabel:`Posted` or :guilabel:`Draft` :guilabel:`Status`.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Action` icon to export, delete, or send & print the bills; click
the :guilabel:`Print` icon to print the invoices or bills; or click :guilabel:`Register Payment` to

> create and process payments for multiple vendor bills at once. Select the correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create and process payments for multiple vendor bills at once. Select the appropriate
```

:guilabel:`Journal`, choose a :guilabel:`Payment Date` and :guilabel:`Payment Method`, and click
:guilabel:`Create Payment`. This will create a list of journal entries all tied to their
appropriate vendor bills.

.. image:: manage/manage-batch-billing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Batch billing register payment popup.

.. note::
  Clicking :guilabel:`Register Payment` to create payments for vendor bills in batches will only

>   work for posted journal entries. So, all bills must have a :guilabel:`Posted` :guilabel:`Status`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  work for journal entries whose :guilabel:`Status` is set to :guilabel:`Posted`.
```

>   to be processed in batches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

first go to :menuselection:`Purchase --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Invoicing` section, and select :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`. Then, :guilabel:`Save`
changes.

Next, go to the :guilabel:`Purchase` app and click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new Request for
Quotation (RFQ). Add a :guilabel:`Vendor` to the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)`, and add
products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`. Then,
:guilabel:`Confirm Order`. Once the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` is confirmed, click
:guilabel:`Create Bill`.

On the :guilabel:`Draft Bill`, add a :guilabel:`Bill Date`, and add additional products to the
:guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line` (if needed). Next, :guilabel:`Confirm`
the :guilabel:`Draft Bill`.

.. note::
   Since the bill control policy is set to *ordered quantities*, the draft bill can be confirmed as
   soon as it is created, before any products have been received.

On the new :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`, click :guilabel:`Add Credit Note` or :guilabel:`Add Debit Note`
to add credit or debit notes to the bill; add a :guilabel:`Bill Reference` number; then click

> :menuselection:`Register Payment --> Create Payment` to complete the :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`.

Author: Good idea to add in more detail and clarification here. I provided a more in-depth rundown of pretty much every available option and field here, so that later in the doc when they pop up again, readers will be familiar.

were populated based on the configuration on the :guilabel:`Vendor` and :guilabel:`Product` forms.

Then, click :guilabel:`Add Credit Note` or :guilabel:`Add Debit Note` to add credit or debit notes
to the bill; add a :guilabel:`Bill Reference` number; then click :menuselection:`Register Payment
--> Create Payment` to complete the :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`.

.. tip::
   To tie the :guilabel:`Draft Bill` to an existing purchase order, click the :guilabel:`drop-down`
   menu next to :guilabel:`Auto-Complete`, and select a :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)` from the menu.
   The bill will auto-populate with the information from the :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`.

.. image:: manage/manage-auto-complete.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Auto-complete drop-down list on draft vendor bill.

Batch billing
=============

Vendor bills can be processed and managed in batches in the :guilabel:`Accounting` app. To do this,
go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Bills`. Then, click the :guilabel:`checkbox` at
the top left of the page under :guilabel:`Create`. This will select all existing vendor bills with

> a :guilabel:`Posted` or :guilabel:`Draft` :guilabel:`Status`.

Reviewer 2: Vendor bills can be processed and managed in batches in the :guilabel:`Accounting` app. 

To do this, go to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Vendors --> Bills`. Then, click the :guilabel:`checkbox` at
the top left of the page, beside the :guilabel:`Number` column, under the :guilabel:`Create` button. This selects all existing vendor bills with a :guilabel:`Posted` (or :guilabel:`Draft`) :guilabel:`Status`.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Action` gear icon to export, delete, or send & print the bills;
click the :guilabel:`Print` icon to print the invoices or bills; or click
:guilabel:`Register Payment` to create and process payments for multiple vendor bills at once.
Select the appropriate :guilabel:`Journal`, choose a :guilabel:`Payment Date` and
:guilabel:`Payment Method`, and click :guilabel:`Create Payment`. This will create a list of

> journal entries all tied to their appropriate vendor bills.

Reviewer 2: Then, with all the existing bills selected, click the :guilabel:`Action` gear icon at the top of the page (in the middle, beneath the search bar) to reveal a number of different options. 

[insert image of that drop-down menu]

Those options are: :guilabel:`Export`, :guilabel:`Delete`, :guilabel:`Reverse`, :guilabel:`Resequence`, :guilabel:`Post entries`, :guilabel:`Send & print`, :guilabel:`Create Debit Note`, :guilabel:`Register Pament`, :guilabel:`Send Bills for digitalization`.

(*NOTE* might be smart to list all those options and briefly explain what each one means/represents. Not just a few.)

To create and process payments for multiple vendors at once, click :guilabel:`Register Payment` from the :guilabel:`Action` drop-down. When selected, a pop-up appears.

In this pop-up window, select the appropriate journal in the :guilabel:`Journal` field, choose a payment date in the :guilabel:`Payment Date` field, and choose a :guilabel:`Payment Method`. There is also the option to :guilabel:`Group Payments` on this pop-up, as well. 

When ready, click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button, which creates a list of journal entries on a separate page. This list of journal entries are all tied to their appropriate vendor bills.

.. image:: manage/manage-batch-billing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Batch billing register payment popup.

.. note::
   Clicking :guilabel:`Register Payment` to create payments for vendor bills in batches will only

>    work for journal entries whose :guilabel:`Status` is set to :guilabel:`Posted`.

Reviewer 2: The :guilabel:`Register Payment` option for vendor bills in batches will only work for journal entries 
   with a :guilabel:`Status` set to :guilabel:`Posted`.

On the :guilabel:`Draft Bill`, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button to modify the bill, and add a bill
date in the :guilabel:`Bill Date` field. If needed, add additional products to the
:guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line` in the :guilabel:`Invoice Lines` tab.

Next, confirm the bill by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm` button on the :guilabel:`Draft Bill`
page.

.. tip::
   Since the bill control policy is set to *ordered quantities*, the draft bill can be confirmed as
   soon as it is created, before any products have been received.

On the new :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`, add a :guilabel:`Bill Reference` number, which can be used to
match the bill with additional documents (such as the :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`). Then, click
:menuselection:`Confirm --> Register Payment`. Doing so causes a pop-up to appear, wherein a payment
:guilabel:`Journal` can be chosen; a :guilabel:`Payment Method` selected; and a :guilabel:`Recipient
Bank Account` can be selected from a drop-down menu.

Additionally, the bill :guilabel:`Amount`, :guilabel:`Payment Date`, and :guilabel:`Memo`
(:dfn:`Reference Number`) can be changed from this pop-up. Once ready, click :guilabel:`Create

> Payment` to finish creating the :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`. Doing so causes a green **In Payment**

Reviewer 3: I think this banner could use a :guilabel: since it is an element that appears on the UI
```suggestion
Payment` to finish creating the :guilabel:`Vendor Bill`. Doing so causes a green :guilabel:`In Payment`
```

detail form.

On the blank detail form, add a vendor to the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` in the
:guilabel:`Vendor` field, and add products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a line`.

Then, confirm the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm Order`
button above the detail form. Doing so turns the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` into a purchase
order.

Finally, click the :guilabel:`Create Bill` button to create a bill for the purchase order.

.. note::
   Clicking :guilabel:`Create Bill` before any products have been received will cause a
   :guilabel:`User Error` pop-up to appear. The :guilabel:`Purchase Order` requires the receipt of
   at least partial quantity of the items included on the order to create a vendor bill.

.. image:: manage/manage-user-error-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: User error pop-up for received quantities control policy.

Next, click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to view the warehouse receipt form.

On the warehouse receipt form, click :menuselection:`Validate --> Apply` to mark the

> :guilabel:`Done` quantities. Then, navigate back to the :guilabel:`Purchase Order` (via the

Reviewer 3: Arguable instance of whether or not to use a :guilabel: or :menuselection: here, I'd prefer a menuselection. @brse-odoo @StraubCreative  WDYT? 
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Done` quantities. Then, navigate back to the :menuselection:`Purchase Order` (via the
```

Author: I went with the menuselection, I agree it makes sense here

products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines (under the :guilabel:`Invoice Lines` tab), by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a line`. Then, add a bill date in the :guilabel:`Bill Date` field, and any other
necessary information. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the bill.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Journal Items` tab to view (or change) the :guilabel:`Account`
journals that were populated based on the configuration on the corresponding :guilabel:`Vendor` and
:guilabel:`Product` forms.

Then, click :guilabel:`Add Credit Note` or :guilabel:`Add Debit Note` to add credit or debit notes
to the bill. Or, add a :guilabel:`Bill Reference` number (while in :guilabel:`Edit` mode).

Then, when ready, click :menuselection:`Register Payment --> Create Payment` to complete the
:guilabel:`Vendor Bill`.

.. tip::
   To tie the draft bill to an existing purchase order, click the drop-down menu next to
   :guilabel:`Auto-Complete`, and select a :abbr:`PO (purchase order)` from the menu. The bill will
   auto-populate with the information from the :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`.

.. image:: manage/manage-auto-complete.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Auto-complete drop-down list on draft vendor bill.

Reviewer 3: may be good to indent this image so it is within the tip admonition

:guilabel:`Draft` :guilabel:`Status`.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Action` gear icon to export, delete, or send & print the bills;
click the :guilabel:`Print` icon to print the invoices or bills; or click :guilabel:`Register
Payment` to create and process payments for multiple vendor bills at once.

When :guilabel:`Register Payment` is selected, a pop-up appears. In this pop-up window, select the
appropriate journal in the :guilabel:`Journal` field, choose a payment date in the
:guilabel:`Payment Date` field, and choose a :guilabel:`Payment Method`. There is also the option to
:guilabel:`Group Payments` on this pop-up, as well.

When ready, click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button, which creates a list of journal entries on
a separate page. This list of journal entries are all tied to their appropriate vendor bills.

.. image:: manage/manage-batch-billing.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Batch billing register payment pop-up.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Register Payment` option for vendor bills in batches will only work for journal
   entries whose :guilabel:`Status` is set to :guilabel:`Posted`.

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`control_bills`

Reviewer 3: Please use a global relative path here rather than local relative

Manage vendor bills
===================

A *vendor bill* is an invoice received for products and/or services that a company purchases from a
vendor. Vendor bills record payables as they arrive from vendors, and can include amounts owed for
the goods and/or services purchased, sales taxes, freight and delivery charges, and more.

In Odoo, a vendor bill can be created at different points in the purchasing process, depending on
the :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy chosen in the :guilabel:`Purchase` app settings.

Bill control policies
=====================

> To view and edit the default *Bill Control* policy and make changes to it, go to

Reviewer 4: this is italicized in this sense because we're not talking about the UI yet.
brse is hypothetically talking about the policy

:menuselection:`Purchase --> Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Invoicing` section.

Here, there are two :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy options:
:guilabel:`Ordered quantities` and :guilabel:`Received quantities`. After a policy is selected,
click :guilabel:`Save` to save changes.

.. image:: manage/manage-configuration-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Bill control policies in purchase app settings.

The policy selected will be the default for any new product created. The definition of each policy
is as follows:

- :guilabel:`Ordered quantities`: creates a vendor bill as soon as a purchase order is confirmed.
  The products and quantities in the purchase order are used to generate a draft bill.
- :guilabel:`Received quantities`: a bill is only created *after* part of the total order has been
  received. The products and quantities *received* are used to generate a draft bill.

.. warning::
   If the creation of a vendor bill is attempted without receiving any quantities of a product
   (while using the *received quantities* control policy), an error message appears, and settings
   must be changed before proceeding.

.. tip::

>    If a product needs a different control policy, the default *bill control* setting can be

Reviewer 4: this doesn't need any formatting actually
bill control policies/settings are not unique to Odoo, we're not on or giving instruction around a dashboard, and the term has already been introduced so italics are not needed here.

   :guilabel:`Control Policy` field.

.. image:: manage/manage-product-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Control policy field on product form.

3-way matching
--------------

:guilabel:`3-way matching` ensures vendor bills are only paid once some (or all) of the products
included in the purchase order have actually been received.

To activate it, go to :menuselection:`Purchase --> Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down to
the :guilabel:`Invoicing` section. Then, check the box next to
:guilabel:`3-way matching: purchases, receptions, and bills`, and click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. important::
   :guilabel:`3-way matching` is *only* intended to work with the :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy
   set to :guilabel:`Received quantities`.

.. image:: manage/manage-three-way-matching.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Activated three-way matching feature in purchase settings.

Create (and manage) vendor bills on receipts
============================================

When products are received into a company's warehouse, receipts are created. Once the company
processes the received quantities, they can choose to create a vendor bill directly from the

> wareouse receipt form. Depending on the *bill control* policy chosen in the settings, vendor bill

Reviewer 4: could go either way since we're referencing a heading in the settings.
up to brse

creation is completed at different steps of the procurement process.

With the bill control policy set to ordered quantities
------------------------------------------------------

> To create and manage vendor bills on receipts using the *ordered quantities* bill control policy,

Reviewer 4: Don't think we use a gui here since we're not there on the screen. We're emphasizing the field/setting that we will arrive to after the dashboard instruction.

  received. The products and quantities **received** are used to generate a draft bill.

.. tip::
   If a product needs a different control policy, the default bill control policy can be overridden
   by going to the :guilabel:`Purchase` tab in a product's template, and modifying its
   :guilabel:`Control Policy` field.

.. image:: manage/manage-product-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Control policy field on product form.

3-way matching
--------------

*3-way matching* ensures vendor bills are only paid once some (or all) of the products included in
the purchase order have actually been received.

To activate it, go to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and scroll down
to the :guilabel:`Invoicing` section. Then, check the box next to :guilabel:`3-way matching:
purchases, receptions, and bills`, and click :guilabel:`Save` to save changes.

.. important::
   :guilabel:`3-way matching` is **only** intended to work with the :guilabel:`Bill Control` policy
   set to :guilabel:`Received quantities`.

   .. image:: manage/manage-three-way-matching.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Activated three-way matching feature in purchase settings.

> Create (and manage) vendor bills on receipts

Reviewer 4: Parenthesis are not needed here.
They're also not present on the other "create and manage" heading that appears later in the doc.
```suggestion
Create and manage vendor bills on receipts
```
